docs: add documentation pages for the Agent pack (#12057)
deepset-ai/haystack: docs-website/docs/pipeline-components/agents-1/agent-pack.mdx

---

# Agent Pack

Agent Pack is a collection of complex, pre-configured Haystack agents you can run as they are, customize, or copy as a blueprint for your own architecture.

<div className="key-value-table">

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **API reference** | Agent Pack |
| **GitHub link**   | https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-core-integrations/tree/main/integrations/agent_pack |
| **Package name**  | `agent-pack-haystack` |

</div>

## Overview

Language Models and Tools are the core building blocks of agents.

However, building a robust agent often requires more: an architecture that splits the work across sub-agents, techniques for keeping context small but focused, and ways to influence and interact with the agent loop.

Agent Pack combines these techniques into working agents. Each one is a complete architecture built from Haystack primitives ([`Agent`](./agent.mdx), [Tools](../../tools/tool.mdx), [hooks](./hooks.mdx), [`State`](./state.mdx), and Pipelines), exposed behind a single `create_*` entry point.

There are three ways to use an agent from the pack:

> - **Run it as is.** Call `create_deep_research_agent()`, pass a question, get a report. The defaults are chosen to work out of the box.

Reviewer: Would be nice if we could generalize this or make it clear this is one example of the agent factory

Author: done in https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack/pull/12057/commits/231956029de0649e9a96e2abce25cb803acd066b

- **Customize it.** Each entry point exposes parameters for changing models, adding tools, and configuring behavior specific to that type of agent. (*This interface is still being refined to make customization more consistent and flexible.*)
- **Copy it.** Read the implementation and take inspiration for your agents. These agents are built with this use case in mind, so individual parts should be easy to adapt.

In other words, you can use the agents in Agent Pack as either ready-made solutions or reference architectures.

## Installation

```shell
pip install agent-pack-haystack
```

Each agent has its own additional runtime dependencies and may require API keys. See its documentation page for these details.

## Available agents

| Agent | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Deep Research Agent](agent-pack/deep-research-agent.mdx) | Researches a question on the web and produces a structured Markdown report with citations. |

> | [Advanced RAG Agent](agent-pack/advanced-rag-agent.mdx) | Inspects document store metadata and builds Haystack filters to narrow retrieval. |

Reviewer: I would emphasize that it also answers questions with citations so something like 
```suggestion
| [Advanced RAG Agent](agent-pack/advanced-rag-agent.mdx) | Inspects document-store metadata and builds Haystack filters to retrieve precisely, then answers with citations. |
```
